# escape

I've been thinking of maybe writing a fictional novel about mental health and native curses.  The preceding words you may have read were my trial wading into unknown depths, to see what, if anything, may be there.  It seems to me there may be some substance enough to warrant actually devoting time to this foray into new fields.  My perceptions are always difficult to put words to, mainly in that I tend to use heavier language in situations nobody else would bother ascribing much depth.  But everything I see is a real struggle, and sometimes my blacks are darker; sometimes my whites are blinding, but when I use most words, you have to judge by context my meaning or ultimately "ask me."  And the Indian running through brambles and muddy creeks stops for a moment to pick up a bright feather, to add it to the already brilliant, multivariate plumage in his streaming hair.  He runs by and I nod to him, knowing one day this land will return to itself and one day I will be vindicated for being vulnerable in public.

They move in the shadows, bringing change.

The anger existed before I set foot in this place.  The rage is boundless.  It pulses.  It wants to drown you, and it feasts on your unhappiness.  I see it there, waiting in the tangle of broken sticks and tattered plastic bags, pausing as you drive mindlessly by, judging whether or not your spirit is broken.  The anger of thousands of forgotten souls, the piercing shriek of a maelstrom of wounded dreams and shattered futures coalesced into a substrate of energy that lives behind every corner and every quavering bit of dew.  Insects chitter in response to the swelling.  I wait for it to stop trying to grab me.  I'm familiar with it enough to know it isn't trifling.  I've looked around me for someone to blame for its presence, its existence; there's nothing there.  But I feel that accursed darkness just as tangibly as you might feel a spider's web in the evening light.  It has substance and residue even as I doubt myself for calling into narration its existence.   And this is probably not the place nor the time to go about addressing ancient curses; the days of treading lightly are waning.  I just hope there is some measure of good to be received, even by persons outside my knowledge, given my risk in pursuing a dialog with treachery.

From the darkness, a greener earth shall emerge.

As I lay there daydreaming of happier times, the invisible fingers of a dark entity wrapped themselves about my neck, choking out reason and restraint.  Images of desperation and sadness filled me, and an overwhelming urge to lash out overtook me.  I could feel that it was separate from me; I could feel it had a will of its own.  "This land is cursed," I thought to myself.  "Maybe it's the natives who cursed it."  It doesn't matter where it originated.  It permeates everything.  Does it know I know It's there?  Can it feel me pushing it away?  These things I think to myself, wondering if I should bother jotting them down.  "Will it make any difference?"  "Can I push back against the inexorable flow?"  There's a place I've driven by where the darkness seems stronger.  I see its arm reaching out from that place, fingers grasping for anyone vulnerable to it.  It doesn't care who it infests.  It's indiscriminate.  What is this evil?  It's the surrounding mists.

Choking and killing the life we once knew, yet there is hope.

When a young girl, I dreamed of a place that was mine, a place I'd never need to leave, a belonging to the land and even an edifice you couldn't erase.  I knew that sense of remaining existed somewhere out there, for in books I'd read of it; in my mind I imagined it.  Amid night time dreams of old houses and midnight pools, my reaching out for that permanence has never waned.  It fills me with longing even now, and I've come for that residence others might disdain.  Can I recognize it in the mirror; can I hear it in song?  Not while sanity lies sleeping and sobriety follows along.  Mind you, I don't mean to wax poetic.  I've rid myself of these shackles:  expectation and artifice.  Mortal enemies to my peace of mind, I invoke caution as we sound the unknown for a foothold.  You will carry me along.  You, who had left so many others by rashness and malcontent.  You cannot leave here; were interwoven.  This silken carriage ride overtakes you, too.  Come with me and never stop singing.

Amid the reflections on a still pond I caught the flicker of a silvery tail and smiled.  The hooting of an owl in the distance reminded me I must not tarry long.  But I loved to inhale the fresh smell of spring weeds and snatch at whispers of moonlight through the blackened leaves, my child now grown, my days mine again; exactly what have I sown?  Does it even matter?  I have leagues upon leagues of friends shimmering somewhere *out there* in the air?  Where are you, exactly?  And will we haunt this place when we're gone?  Do we haunt it now?  Sometimes I think we just might.  But that colour is so indistinct as to leave me in doubt.  So far none of this has gone to plan; nothing yet has turned out.  Oh, my body, you say?  My health?  I've never really equated any of my being with the things you can see.  So I'll nod and accept your assessment, though it means nothing to me.  I want to last, like the taste of a bird's evening calling to a mate hiding far beyond my hearing.  Beauty everywhere, pain and sorrow too.

A little glimmer of an idea slowly began enveloping me as I listened to the soft sounds of Spring.
